~file: differentiate_markers_sc
// Module: Using Sources
// Tile: Establishing Credibility when Using Sources   
// Skills: Differentiate among the markers of credibility [when integrating a source] into writing

Including a source’s credentials, such as Harvard Distinguished Professor, in the first reference to a source is an example of:
~formative
1. Signal phrase highlighting the reputation and qualifications of the source.*
~feedback: Correct.  By highlighting the reputation and qualifications of a source through a signal phrase, the writer builds the credibility of the source.

2. Evidence adding to the argument’s persuasiveness.
~feedback: Incorrect.  Evidence is the source material itself, not the source’s credentials.

3. Citation demonstrating the trustworthiness of the writer.
~feedback: Incorrect.  Citation is the bibliographic information for the source, not the source’s credentials.

4. Relevance of the source to the writer’s argument
~feedback: Incorrect.  Relevance is the way the source material is related to the writer’s argument, not the source’s credentials.

Including reference information which helps the reader easily find the source is an example of:
~formative
1. Citation demonstrating the trustworthiness of the writer.*
~feedback: Correct.  By providing accurate, complete citation of a source, the writer demonstrates his or her trustworthiness.

2. Signal phrase highlighting the reputation and qualifications of the source.
~feedback: Incorrect.  A signal phrase is an introduction to the source material, not reference information.

3. Evidence adding to the argument’s persuasiveness.
~feedback: Incorrect.  Evidence adding to the argument’s persuasiveness is the source material itself, not the reference information.

4. Relevance of the source to the writer’s argument.
~feedback: Incorrect.  Explaining the relevance of the source to the writer’s argument is how the writer demonstrates his or her critical thinking and reasoning, not reference information.

Explaining how the source material supports the writer’s point is an example of:
~formative
1. Relevance of the source to the writer’s argument.*
~feedback: Correct.  By explaining the relevance of the source to the argument, a writer demonstrates critical thinking and reasoning, thereby building credibility.

2. Citation demonstrating the trustworthiness of the writer.
~feedback: Incorrect.  Citation is providing accurate, complete bibliographical information for a source, not explaining how the source material is related to the writer’s point.

3. Evidence adding to the argument’s persuasiveness.
~feedback: Incorrect.  Evidence is material from the source, not the writer’s explanation of that material’s relevance to his or her point.

4. Signal phrase highlighting the reputation and qualifications of the source.
~feedback: Incorrect.  A signal phrase introduces source material rather than explaining its relevance to the writer’s point.
