~file: differentiate_summary_sc
// Module: Using Sources
// Tile: Using Sources Appropriately
// Skills: Differentiate among paraphrase, summary, and quotation.

<p>Read the passage below and answer the following questions about using sources appropriately.</p>
<p>In the article, "The Loneliness of the Interconnected," Charles Seife argues that people are becoming more and more isolated in our increasingly interconnected world and, furthermore, that bits and pieces of our delicate mental structure are withered away as we increasingly rely on the internet as our source of information. According to Selfe, this mental decay leaves us with some opinions "as firm as bedrock, and just as difficult to remove" (290).As an example of this phenomenon, Seife describes how, in the 1950s, psychologist Leon Festinger sought to research the point at which this crisis occurs. He contacted a woman by the name of Dorothy Martin who was the leader of a small cult in Chicago. Martin believed that she was writing letters under the command of Clarion, a distant planet. She had concrete belief that Chicago would be wiped out and that the United States would be submerged underwater from a great flood on the morning of December 21, 1955. Her salvation? A spaceman, assumed to be a Clarion, would visit Dorothy and her followers hours before the disaster, whisking them away on a spaceship to safety. This bizarre and radical belief was only strengthened when the calamity never arose. The cult members convinced themselves that the Clarions managed to stop the destruction from happening (Seife 290-91). This type of herd mentality and definition of self convinces people to drink poisoned Kool-Aid.</p> 
~formative
Which of the following is an example of direct quotation?
1. According to Seife, this mental decay leaves us with some opinions "as firm as bedrock, and just as difficult to remove" (290).*
~feedback: Correct. The phrase “as firm as bedrock, and just as difficult to remove” is original language from the source. The writer chose to incorporate this direct quotation because Seife’s metaphor concisely and cleverly captures an important point.

2. In the article, "The Loneliness of the Interconnected", Charles Seife argues that people are becoming more and more isolated in our increasingly interconnected world and, furthermore, that bits and pieces of our delicate mental structure are withered away as we increasingly rely on the internet as our source of information.
~feedback: Incorrect. In this passage, the writer is summarizing Seife’s article, noting just the author’s main points.

3. As an example of this phenomenon, Seife describes how, in the 1950s, psychologist Leon Festinger sought to research the point at which this crisis occurs. He contacted a woman by the name of Dorothy Martin who was the leader of a small cult in Chicago. Martin believed that she was writing letters under the command of Clarion, a distant planet. She had concrete belief that Chicago would be wiped out and that the United States would be submerged underwater from a great flood on the morning of December 21, 1955. Her salvation? A spaceman, assumed to be a Clarion, would visit Dorothy and her followers hours before the disaster, whisking them away on a spaceship to safety. This bizarre and radical belief was only strengthened when the calamity never arose. The cult members convinced themselves that the Clarions managed to stop the destruction from happening (Seife, 290-91).
~feedback: Incorrect. In this passage, the writer is paraphrasing an extended example from Seife’s article, maintaining the main points and including several details.

<p>Read the passage below and answer the following questions about using sources appropriately.</p>
<p>In the article, "The Loneliness of the Interconnected", Charles Seife argues that people are becoming more and more isolated in our increasingly interconnected world and, furthermore, that bits and pieces of our delicate mental structure are withered away as we increasingly rely on the internet as our source of information. According to Seife, this mental decay leaves us with some opinions "as firm as bedrock, and just as difficult to remove" (290).As an example of this phenomenon, Seife describes how, in the 1950s, psychologist Leon Festinger sought to research the point at which this crisis occurs. He contacted a woman by the name of Dorothy Martin who was the leader of a small cult in Chicago. Martin believed that she was writing letters under the command of Clarion, a distant planet. She had concrete belief that Chicago would be wiped out and that the United States would be submerged underwater from a great flood on the morning of December 21, 1955. Her salvation? A spaceman, assumed to be a Clarion, would visit Dorothy and her followers hours before the disaster, whisking them away on a spaceship to safety. This bizarre and radical belief was only strengthened when the calamity never arose. The cult members convinced themselves that the Clarions managed to stop the destruction from happening (Seife 290-91). This type of herd mentality and definition of self convinces people to drink poisoned Kool-Aid.</p> 
~formative
Which of the following is an example of paraphrase?
1. As an example of this phenomenon, Seife describes how, in the 1950s, psychologist Leon Festinger sought to research the point at which this crisis occurs. He contacted a woman by the name of Dorothy Martin who was the leader of a small cult in Chicago. Martin believed that she was writing letters under the command of Clarion, a distant planet. She had concrete belief that Chicago would be wiped out and that the United States would be submerged underwater from a great flood on the morning of December 21, 1955. Her salvation? A spaceman, assumed to be a Clarion, would visit Dorothy and her followers hours before the disaster, whisking them away on a spaceship to safety. This bizarre and radical belief was only strengthened when the calamity never arose. The cult members convinced themselves that the Clarions managed to stop the destruction from happening (Seife 290–91).*
~feedback: Correct. In this passage, the writer is paraphrasing an extended example from Seife’s article, maintaining the main points and including several details.

2.According to Seife, this mental decay leaves us with some opinions "as firm as bedrock, and just as difficult to remove" (290).
~feedback: Incorrect. In this passage the author is directly quoting from the article, using the author’s original language.

3. In the article, "The Loneliness of the Interconnected", Charles Seife argues that people are becoming more and more isolated in our increasingly interconnected world and, furthermore, that bits and pieces of our delicate mental structure are withered away as we increasingly rely on the internet as our source of information.
~feedback: Incorrect. In this passage, the author is summarizing Seife’s article, noting just the main points.

<p>Read the passage below and answer the following questions about using sources appropriately.</p>
<p>In the article, "The Loneliness of the Interconnected", Charles Seife argues that people are becoming more and more isolated in our increasingly interconnected world and, furthermore, that bits and pieces of our delicate mental structure are withered away as we increasingly rely on the internet as our source of information. According to Selfe, this mental decay leaves us with some opinions "as firm as bedrock, and just as difficult to remove" (290). As an example of this phenomenon, Seife describes how, in the 1950s, psychologist Leon Festinger sought to research the point at which this crisis occurs. He contacted a woman by the name of Dorothy Martin who was the leader of a small cult in Chicago. Martin believed that she was writing letters under the command of Clarion, a distant planet. She had concrete belief that Chicago would be wiped out and that the United States would be submerged underwater from a great flood on the morning of December 21, 1955. Her salvation? A spaceman, assumed to be a Clarion, would visit Dorothy and her followers hours before the disaster, whisking them away on a spaceship to safety. This bizarre and radical belief was only strengthened when the calamity never arose. The cult members convinced themselves that the Clarions managed to stop the destruction from happening (Seife 290-91). This type of herd mentality and definition of self convinces people to drink poisoned Kool-Aid.</p> 
~formative
Which of the following is an example of summary?
1. In the article, "The Loneliness of the Interconnected", Charles Seife argues that people are becoming more and more isolated in our increasingly interconnected world and, furthermore, that bits and pieces of our delicate mental structure are withered away as we increasingly rely on the internet as our source of information.*
~feedback: Correct. In this passage, the author is summarizing Seife’s article, noting just the main points.

2. According to Seife, this mental decay leaves us with some opinions "as firm as bedrock, and just as difficult to remove" (290).
~feedback: Incorrect. In this passage the author is directly quoting from the article, using the author’s original language.

3. As an example of this phenomenon, Seife describes how, in the 1950s, psychologist Leon Festinger sought to research the point at which this crisis occurs. He contacted a woman by the name of Dorothy Martin who was the leader of a small cult in Chicago. Martin believed that she was writing letters under the command of Clarion, a distant planet. She had concrete belief that Chicago would be wiped out and that the United States would be submerged underwater from a great flood on the morning of December 21, 1955. Her salvation? A spaceman, assumed to be a Clarion, would visit Dorothy and her followers hours before the disaster, whisking them away on a spaceship to safety. This bizarre and radical belief was only strengthened when the calamity never arose. The cult members convinced themselves that the Clarions managed to stop the destruction from happening (Seife 290–91).
~feedback: Incorrect. In this passage, the writer is paraphrasing an extended example from Seife’s article, maintaining the original points and including several details.
