~file: identify_sandwich_practice
// Module: Using Sources
// Tile: Integrating Material from Sources
// Skills: Identify the five components of the source sandwich. 

Which part of the passage contains a signal phrase 
1. Coleman Principal Carillian Thompson explains, “The mindfulness practices have actually taught the students how to redirect that negative energy into something positive” (Khorsandi).*
~feedback: Correct.  Thompson’s name and credentials, plus the verb ‘explains’ serve as the signal phrase here.

2. Reflective practice has also started to replace detention in schools across the country. 
~feedback: Incorrect.  Remember that a signal phrase introduces a source and contains a verb.

3. When students fight or misbehave, they are sent to a “mindful me” room instead of the principal’s office, and they learn to peacefully solve these conflicts themselves (Khorsandi). 
~feedback: Incorrect.  Remember that a signal phrase introduces a source and contains a verb.            

Where does the writer transition into using a source? 
1. Reflective practice has also started to replace detention in schools across the country.*
~feedback: Correct.  Here the writer begins to make a new point and sets up a specific example. 

2. Coleman Principal Carillian Thompson explains, “The mindfulness practices have actually taught the students how to redirect that negative energy into something positive” (Khorsandi).
~feedback: Incorrect.  Here the writer is actually using a source, not setting one up.

3. The changes have resulted in more focus on academics and extracurricular activities at Coleman, which has made parents in the district happy.
~feedback: Incorrect.  Here the writer is summarizing the source previously introduced. 

Which part of the passage explains the relevance of the source to the writer’s thesis? 
1. In fact, many parents have switched their thinking from once believing punitive measures are necessary to modify children’s behaviors to now seeing reflective practices as meaningful alternatives to detention. *
~feedback: Correct.  In this concluding sentence, the writer explains how the example is relevant to her thesis.

2. Administrators at the school claim to have seen a marked improvement in student behavior.  
~feedback: Incorrect.  Here the writer is describing or developing the evidence.

3. Robert W. Coleman Elementary School is one of the first to adopt this method. 
~feedback: Incorrect.  Here the writer is describing or developing the evidence.

Where is the citation of the source in the passage? 
1. When students fight or misbehave, they are sent to a “mindful me” room instead of the principal’s office, and they learn to peacefully solve these conflicts themselves (Khorsandi). *
~feedback: Correct.  The author of the source is listed in parentheses, which matches a source on the writer’s reference list.

2. In fact, many parents have switched their thinking from once believing punitive measures are necessary to modify children’s behaviors to now seeing reflective practices as meaningful alternatives to detention. 
~feedback: Incorrect.  There is no source listed here to match with the writer’s reference list.  

3. The changes have resulted in more focus on academics and extracurricular activities at Coleman, which has made parents in the district happy.
~feedback: Incorrect. There is no source listed here to match with the writer’s reference list.
